[OUDS] Add "Dimension" tokens, utilities and documentation (#2754)
Orange-OpenSource/Orange-Boosted-Bootstrap: site/content/docs/0.0/layout/gutters.md

toc: true
---

## How they work

- **Gutters are the gaps between column content, created by horizontal `padding`.** We set `padding-right` and `padding-left` on each column, and use negative `margin` to offset that at the start and end of each row to align content.

> - **Gutters start at `2px` until `64px` wide.** This allows us to match our grid to the [padding and margin spacers]({{< docsref "/utilities/spacing" >}}) scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Gutters start at `2px` and go up to `64px` wide.** This allows us to match our grid to the [padding and margin spacers]({{< docsref "/utilities/spacing" >}}) scale.
```

- **Gutters can be responsively adjusted.** Use breakpoint-specific gutter classes, from xs to 3xl, to modify horizontal gutters, vertical gutters, and all gutters.

> ## Horizontal & vertical gutters

Reviewer: Why do we need this section that doesn't exist in Bootstrap?

Use `.g-*` classes (`*` being among `none`, `smash`, `shortest`, `shorter`, `short`, `medium`, `tall`, `taller`, `tallest`, `spacious`, `huge`, and `jumbo`) to control the horizontal and vertical grid gutters.

{{< example class="bd-example-cols" >}}
<div class="container text-center">
  <div class="row g-short">
    <div class="col-6">
      <div class="p-medium">Custom column padding</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-6">
      <div class="p-medium">Custom column padding</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-6">
      <div class="p-medium">Custom column padding</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-6">
      <div class="p-medium">Custom column padding</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Horizontal gutters

> `.gx-*` classes can be used to control the horizontal gutter widths. The `.container` or `.container-fluid` parent may need to be adjusted if larger gutters are used too to avoid unwanted overflow, using a matching padding utility. For example, in the following example we've increased the padding with `.px-tall`. Note that in the previous example, we use a `short` gutter width, so there isn't a need for the `.overflow-hidden` wrapper class.

Reviewer: `.container` is not to be used in OUDS Web.

{{< example class="bd-example-cols" >}}
<div class="container text-center">
  <div class="row row-cols-2 row-cols-lg-5 g-short g-lg-tallest">
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
    <div class="col">
      <div class="p-medium">Row column</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## No gutters

The gutters between columns in our predefined grid classes can be removed with `.g-none`. This removes the negative `margin`s from `.row` and the horizontal `padding` from all immediate children columns.

> **Need an edge-to-edge design?** Drop the parent `.container` or `.container-fluid` and add `.mx-none` to the `.row` to prevent overflow.

Reviewer: `.container` shouldn't be mentioned here as not usable in OUDS Web

## How they work

- **Gutters are the gaps between column content, created by horizontal `padding`.** We set `padding-right` and `padding-left` on each column, and use negative `margin` to offset that at the start and end of each row to align content. The default gutter width is described in [our grid options]({{< docsref "/layout/grid#grid-options" >}}).

> - **Gutter utilities start at `2px` and go up to `64px` wide.** This allows us to match our grid to the [padding and margin spacers]({{< docsref "/utilities/spacing" >}}) scale.

Reviewer: Gutters was fine, wasn't it?

```suggestion
- **Gutters start at `2px` and go up to `64px` wide.** This allows us to match our grid to the [padding and margin spacers]({{< docsref "/utilities/spacing" >}}) scale.
```

Author: Quite not sure about this change, it looks fine to me right now.

Reviewer: It's just that Bootstrap uses "Gutters" in their wording. As you want. I'll let you decide.

- **Gutters can be responsively adjusted.** Use breakpoint-specific gutter classes, from xs to 3xl, to modify horizontal gutters, vertical gutters, and all gutters.

## Horizontal gutters

> `.gx-*` classes can be used to control the horizontal gutter widths. The wrapper element may need to be adjusted if larger gutters are used too to avoid unwanted overflow, using a matching padding utility. For example, in the following example we've increased the padding with `.px-tall`.

Reviewer: You can say "The container", it works too.
